---
layout: post
lang: en
title:  "The R Language"
excerpt: ""
category: R 
tags: ["R","Programming Languages"]
date:   2023-01-01 22:45:33
comments: false
share: false
published: true
---

> "UNIX is basically a simple operating system, but you have to be a genius to understand the simplicity."
>
> – Dennis Ritchie

R is a programming language and software environment for statistical analysis, graphics, and computing. It was created by Ross Ihaka and Robert Gentleman at the University of Auckland, New Zealand, and is currently developed by the R Core Team. R is an implementation of the S programming language, which was developed by John Chambers and others at Bell Laboratories.

R is an open-source programming language, released as part of the GNU project and available under the GNU General Public License. It is primarily written in C, Fortran, and R itself (partially self-hosting) and precompiled versions are available for various operating systems.

R is one of the most commonly used programming languages in data mining, according to user surveys and academic literature database studies. As of April 2023, R ranks 16th in the ranking of the most popular programming languages, where the language reached 8th place in August 2020.

R is used in many fields, including bioinformatics, economics, finance, data science, and machine learning. It offers a wide range of features for data analysis, statistical modeling, and data visualization. In addition, R has a comprehensive package system that allows users to share reusable code and documentation.

In summary, R is a powerful and flexible programming language that is widely used in many fields for data analysis and statistical modeling. Its open-source nature and large user community make it a valuable tool for researchers and data analysts worldwide.

There are many interesting courses and certifications on the R language available on coursera.org.

Bibliography: “R (programming language).” Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/R_(programming_language) : “S (programming language).” Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S_(programming_language)