---
layout: post
title:  "The this keyword in Java"
excerpt: ""
category: "Java"
permalink: /java/keyword/this/
date:   2007-01-05
comments: true
share: false
modified: 2024-07-11
published: true
---

It is possible to find two situations of interest related to the use of methods, the careful handling of which allows for improved the efficiency of the code:

* homonymy of the parameters of the methods and variables of the class in which the methods are defined 
* multiplicity of constructors of the class


The first situation arises from the fact that a typical use of methods consists of providing values to be assigned to object variables. 
In this case, it is evident that the method parameters and the class member data possess the same semantics and therefore it is not reasonable to 
identify one and the other with different names.

The problem that follows is that of being able to discriminate between different entities that are identified with the same identifier. 

The second situation arises from the function of constructors, the purpose of which is to provide different procedures for 
initialisation of objects that may depend on particular application requirements.

Typically, a class provides a constructor with default values for object variables and one or more other 
constructors for specific initialisations. 

It is reasonable to expect that the presence of multiple constructors, similar in their functionality, will result in duplication 
of part of the code or these methods with consequent waste of memory. 

In order to deal with the situations indicated, the Java programming language provides the programmer with the reserved word `this`. 

`this` is a keyword that can be exploited under two distinct interpretations:

* reference to an object 
* reference to another constructor 

In the first meaning, the keyword `this` is exploited in the resolution of homonyms between the parameter of a method and the name of an instance variable:

```java
class T {
   float car;
   void m(float var){
       this.var=var;
   }
}
```


It forces the compiler to interpret the specification `this.var` as a reference to the `var` instance variable of the object in which the `m()` method is activated.
Thus, in the `this.var=var` command, the `var` identifier to the right of the assignment operator refers to the method parameter, 
while the specification `this.var` to the left of the same operator refers to the attribute of the object. 

The second meaning of the keyword `this` relates to the presence of several constructors. In order to reduce the code produced by the compiler, 
the constructors of a class may be broken down into a primary constructor and one or more secondary constructors. 
Whilst the primary constructor is itself coded, the secondary constructors refer to the primary constructor by returning its parameters
callback parameters in the `this` specification. The calling specification must be the first statement that appears in the code of the secondary constructors.

```java
class T {
   float var;
   public T(float var){
      this.var=var;
   }
   public T(){
      this(0.03);
   }
}
```

